Hello everyone and welcome to the strings and regular expressions lecture.
Let's go ahead and jump to the sparks shell to get started.
OK I've already started the sparks shell and I have my Skala interpreter open now something I want to
know here is we're just going to go over the basics of printing a string inserting objects into a printed
out string and some basic regular expressions.
There's a lot of methods that are available for strings and it's going to be unrealistic to go through
all of them but we'll share the important ones.
First off let's talk about just printing a string.
You can use the print Ellen for prints line function and then passen either the object or variable name
or the string itself and strings will be using double quotes so we can say print line we say hello.
But notice here in Scala if you use a single quote you'll end up getting an error or say unclose character
literal.
So make sure you're using double quotes and Skala when you're defining strings.
Now let's talk about just concatenating strings together.
You can do that just by using a plus sign.
So for instance I'm going to go ahead and say thou farewell is equal to and I'll go ahead and say good.
Plus bye.
And that's going to go ahead and concatenate that string together.
So I could have also just put this straight into the interpreter itself so good string plus by and it
says string equals goodbye.
OK so this string concatenation and you can actually do the same thing for repetition of a plus sign
it's a multiplication sign.
So I can say something like that's Asterix 5 is going to say dance dance dance dance dance etc..
OK so that's concatenation and repetition.
If we go ahead and define the Eyl a new value as t is equal to a string go ahead just make a basic string
Hello.
Now I have this s t object that is a string.
Me go and show you again.
So SC It's a string it's equal to hello if you say s t dots and then hit tab.
You're going to get a list of all the methods and attributes they can call off this string object.
Notice that there are a ton of them.
So we're only going to go through some of the more important ones and the more common ones.
And we'll explore them more and more as we go throughout the course.
But in this case let's say you wanted to know the length of a string.
You can actually just call s t length.
And if you want you can also call this with close parentheses and it won't change the result.
Just going to give you an integer back of how many elements are in that string.
OK.
Now let's talk about what's known as string interpellation or in more layman's terms.
Just inserting objects into a string.
So I'm going I'm going to go ahead and clear this council and say the name is equal to it's going to
put in put in my name.
So we have Jose.
So if I call the object name it's a string Jose.
Now what I want to go ahead and do is insert this object into another string.
So I want to say Val greets equals and there's two main methods of actually doing string interpolation
or inserting an object into a string.
We're going to talk about the two main ones which is s or f interpellation statements so for greets
we can go ahead and say here is s double quotes.
Say hello and then indicate a dollar sign.
And if you want you can put in curly brackets and then the name of the value or variable in this case
its name close those quotes and then we have street equals Hello Jose and just to show you that you
actually don't need to put in those curly brackets.
I could have done the same thing say Val greets is equal to s hello and then a dollar sign and then
just name here and that's actually going to be the same thing.
OK.
So that's the s way.
And you can also use the print f function which is going to be kind of similar to how it's done in Java
as far as interpellation.
So also you just f interpellation so you can say now accretes is equal to F..
And we can say hello dollar sign name and that's going to be the same thing there.
So you can just put an F there if you try to do this without.
So if I just say Belgrade's is equal to quote Hello dollar sign name this will not work because it actually
thinks that the dollar sign is part of that string.
So you're either going to need an F or s there to let Scullin know that you're trying to insert an object
or interpolate an object into the string.
All right.
Now sometimes you want to actually put in not just strings but float numbers are integers or doubles
etc. and you can actually use the print function to give you a little more control over how you actually
splaying these multiple values or variables.
Let me go in and show you what I mean by that point to clear the council one more time.
Start from the top.
Let me going to show you how to use the prints f function will say print F and then I'm going to pass
a string here.
So a string and you're gonna use a percent sign as her string and we'll say an integer will say percent
sign D for that integer order could be a double as well.
And then where say a float and then percent sign F. and quote comma and then for every percent sign
interpellation for those new String objects we're going to put in there next actually to be strings
will be integers or floats.
We're going to go ahead and after this comma put it in here and then close the princes inside the prince
function.
So Prince a function that first argument is just that string with notes on present signs or you're actually
going to put stuff in hopefully is familiar to you from other programming languages.
Well we can go ahead and say something like a string will put in high that's a string as far as the
integer.
Let's go ahead and just put in 10 and then the floats will go ahead and say twelve point three four
five close parentheses enter and then notice what ends up being printed out.
We say a string high in integer 10 a float twelve point three four or 5 000.
So right now we're just using the print function and indicating where we want to place certain objects.
So this allows you to interpolate strings in a different manner and this gives you a little more control
especially of floating point numbers because that percent f sign can take other arguments such as how
many numbers you want before or after the decimal point.
So for example when we go out and show you we'll go ahead and say print's F again and we'll say the
bill quotes a float.
Whoops percents f.
And we're going to go ahead and before that f we'll put in a number we'll say one points you know let's
go ahead and say two close off with double quotes and then we're going to go in and put a floating point
number here.
We'll say at one point in this case we'll say two three four five and note what's going to happen when
we actually run this when we said 1.2 basically we're indicating how many numbers we want to be placed
before and after that decimal point.
In this case is that point to we mentioned that we only want up to two precision past the decimal point.
So it goes ahead and round's it as appropriate.
So if I go ahead and just click up on the arrow key to run this again.
Let's go ahead and change this for into a 9.
Run that and now we get rounded up to 1.2 4.
So you can use the sort of print functionality in order to get a little more control when you're putting
objects into a string.
Ok we'll go ahead and see more examples of this later on.
We're going to be just using really basic examples for strings or concern throughout the course.
All right now though we've discussed string interpellation.
Let's go ahead and discuss regular expressions such as pattern matching and how to get characters certain
index locations or slices of a string.
We're going to go ahead and create a string.
We'll call it s t again so we're basically going to overwrite C..
It's going to be a value and we'll just call it.
This is a long string and that quote.
OK so let's say you wanted to know what character was at a specific index location and for strings indexing
starts at zero.
You would take s t dot and then the method you are looking for is car ads for a character X and then
the index location as an integer.
So for instance we wanted that capital T would just go ahead and say input 0 there.
Or if you wanted for instance the first s that's going to be at 0 1 2 3.
So we'll go ahead and type in 3 there.
OK.
Now let's say you wanted to do the opposite.
Input a letter and get the index of its first occurrence in the string.
Well in that case you say as the dot index of and notice that scapel.
Oh.
And then you're going to go ahead and put a string and this is going to return the index location the
first occurrence of that element and that strings in this case to index 8.
Now we show you how to get a single element.
But if you actually want to grab a slice of a string you can use the slice notation.
And in that case going to be a little weird for first.
But your string value or variable Esti say slice.
And then in parentheses you put in your starting index comma and then up to your and index.
And it's not going to include the end index.
It's going to up to but not including.
So let's go ahead and try to grab this as a entire word.
So that's going to be the first four letters so we'll start at index 0 comma and then we're going to
go up to let's say for their.
And that's going to go ahead and grab this.
So we grab 0 1 2 and 3 up to but not including four.
So what I want you to do is go ahead and try practicing with this.
See if you can grab the word long.
So pauses video and see you can grab the word long from the string T.
All right let's go ahead and give it a shot.
We'll say Esti slice and then I'm going to go ahead and count where long starts at 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
9 10 and let's go ahead and confirm that that's true.
Just by putting in 11 there I should see an L.
All right.
So we're right there.
So we want Esti slice 10 and then I'm going to want 10 11 12 13 and they'll put in 14 and that should
be the word long.
So hopefully you are able to figure that out using that slice notation and we're actually going to be
able to use that keyword slice for other objects such as lists which we're going to learn about in the
next section on collections.
All right so that's the basics of indexing.
Now let's talk about the basics of regular expressions such as pattern matching.
I'm going to go ahead and clear this and say thou s t is now equal to the string term one term two terms
three close parentheses and now let's go ahead and actually see if we can do some pattern matching.
If you want to check if a string matches in other string you can say t matches and then passing the
string itself.
So you can say from one term to term three as a string you'll get bullied Nichols true and you can say
see matches and they will go in just put term 1 and you'll get false so this checks the entire stream
matches in other string.
And this is kind of similar to just using the comparison operator operator.
Equals equals.
And then moving along.
Let's go ahead and see if it contains a segment or substring.
So if I say T contains we say Term 1 here.
This will be true because s t does contain that substring.
And that's he can do a little bit of pattern matching there.
So then you can say something like S T contains.
Let's go to put a term that doesn't have such as a term for and it brings out false.
All right so that's the basics of pattern matching which are going to go over now later on and we actually
use natural language processing throughout the course.
We'll see a couple of more examples of how you can Orca's strings with Scala.
But that's all the basics you need to know for now.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.